docs: update react native basics path (#212)
Selleo/DevPath: content/web_development/skills/Framework and language/react-native/basics.md

- What dependencies you need to build and run RN app on iOS and Android
- What is expo? Cons and pros using it?
- What is the metro?

### 📝 Katas

- Setup React Native app (with latest version of library) on Android or iOS (can use simulators) - please don't use `expo`!

---

## 📦 React Native / Debugging

We need to check if you know how to debug RN app with usage of React Native DevTools or Flipper (choose one, Flipper should work out-of-box in latest RN)

### 🎓 Learn

- 📗 [React Native - Debugging](https://reactnative.dev/docs/debugging.html#accessing-the-in-app-developer-menu)
- 📗 [React Native Debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger)
- 📗 [Flipper](https://callstack.com/blog/debugging-with-flipper/)
- 📙 [Flipper tutorial video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsaNOILmSXw)

### 🎤 Interview

- How to turn on debugger on simulator and real device?
- Inspect elements in RN
- Use profiling to get performance benefits

### 📝 Katas

- Install React Native Debugger and Flipper
- Record and inspect a trace in profiler

---

## 📦 React Native / Navigation

> React Native doesn't have a built-in idea of a global history stack like a web browser does -- this is where React Navigation enters the story.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native doesn't have a built-in idea of a global history stack like a web browser does - this is where React Navigation comes into play.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native doesn't have a built-in idea of a global history stack like a web browser does - this is where React Navigation enters the chat.
```

Reviewer: sounds better and I think is more appropriate :D

  - 📗 [Redux toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/)
  - 📗 [Zustand](https://github.com/pmndrs/zustand)
  - 📗 [MobX](https://mobx.js.org/react-integration.html)
- 📗 [Context APi](https://beta.reactjs.org/blog/2018/03/29/react-v-16-3#official-context-api)
- Immutability
  - 📗 [Immer](https://github.com/immerjs/immer)
  - 📗 [Immutability helper](https://github.com/kolodny/immutability-helper)
  - 📙 [Immutability](https://hackernoon.com/functional-programming-paradigms-in-modern-javascript-immutability-4e9751ca005c)

### 🎤 Interview

- Why might you want to use an external state management library in a React app?
- What are some common state management libraries used in React Native, and how do they work?
- How do you decide which state management library is best for a particular app?
- How do you integrate a state management library into a React Native app?
- What are the pros and cons of using a state management library in a React app?
- Have you used any state management libraries in a React Native app, and if so, which ones and why?
- How do you use the React Context API to share state between components?
- How to persist data in React Native app.

### 📝 Katas

> 

Reviewer: Maybe let's add a point that says - that usage of a state mgmt library should be implemented in a typesafe way

- Move the state of app into one place - consider using any external library, or create your own eg. with context api
- You should be able to add/edit/remove habit and todo from each place in app
- Create helper/reducer to show habits compoleted in each day
- Create helper/reducer to get count of completed/not completed todos 
- Create helper/reducer to get count of completed/not completed habits in each day 
- Todos/Habits should be persisted - they should be in the same state after closing/opening app

---
## 📦 React Native / Server data management

### 🎓 Learn
- External libraries
  - 📗 [React query](https://react-query-v3.tanstack.com/)
  - 📙 [React query guide](https://tkdodo.eu/blog/react-query-and-type-script)
  - 📗 [Apollo](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/)

### 🎤 Interview

- What are the pros and cons of using a data management library in a React app?
- How do you integrate a data management library into a React Native app?

### 📝 Katas

- Choose one [public API](https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis) and create a client app for it

> - Simple data fetch/update requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add simple data fetching requesting and updating mutations
```

- Use typescript
- You can include it in todos/habits app with new bottom tab, or implement it in react app on codesandbox or your enviroment
---

## 📦 React Native / Lists

You need to know how to render virtual list component

### 🎓 Learn

- 📗 [React Native docs - Lists](https://reactnative.dev/docs/using-a-listview)
- 📗 [React Native docs - ScrollView](https://reactnative.dev/docs/using-a-scrollview)
- 📗 [React Native docs - RefreshControl](https://reactnative.dev/docs/refreshcontrol)

### 🎤 Interview

- What is difference between ScrollView and FlatList?
- What is difference between SectionList and FlatList?
- What is virtualization?
- What is RefreshControl?
- Which prop triggers FlatList rerender?

### 📝 Katas

- Render Habits and Todos inside created screens using FlatList - for now you don't need to style them

---

## 📦 React Native / Styling

> I need to know that you are able to style components, by using original ReactNative StyleSheets or StyledComponents

Reviewer: Do we want to propose StyledComponents as a desired styling technology?

Reviewer: Also `I need to know tha you're able to...` maybe we should do it less personally sounding?

- How to apply styles to components?
- Why should we avoid inline styles?
- How to get height / width of screen?

### 📝 Katas

- Create [floating plus button](https://material.io/components/buttons-floating-action-button) in bottom right of the Habits and Todos screens
- Create components to display Habits that will display habit description and difficultly (with usage of some vector icons)
- Both Habit and Todo components that will be displayed by FlatList should have touchable checkbox that represent if task is completed - it should have empty and present state
- Completed task/habit should have gray version that represent completion
- Each habit/task should have edit icon/button that will take us to edit view
- Create [Switch](https://reactnative.dev/docs/switch) inside Habits view that will display only unfinished habits for this day (it will decide that selector use as data)

---

## 📦 React Native / Forms basic

Usage of external libs to build standarized forms with reusable components. Handle form validations

### 🎓 Learn

- External libraries
  - 📗 [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/ts)
  - 📗 [Formik](https://formik.org/docs/guides/react-native)

>   - 📗 [Yup - form validation](https://github.com/jquense/yup)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 📗 [Yup - form validation](https://github.com/jquense/yup)
  - 📗 [Zod - form validation](https://zod.dev/)  
```

>   

Reviewer: Maybe zod can be also added here?

### 🎤 Interview

- What are the differences between create and edit forms? How do you handle them?

> - Where is an information about errors and touched inputs when using Formik?

Reviewer: or react Hook Form? maybe they can choose here their prefered library

> - What is a library we use to validation in formik? How to write own validation function?

Reviewer: What do you think about adding a question about a diff between those libraries, their rerenders patters, how to avoid unnecesary etc.

### 📝 Katas

- Create reusable TextInput

>   - apply some styles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Apply some basic styles
```

>   - make sure it will be testable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Make sure it is testable
```

>   - it should be used by external library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - It should be used by external library
```

> - Create form for create and edit todos and habits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create form for creating and editing todos and habits
```

- Create tags field inside habit that is an array of strings (user can remove or add any)
- Create validation for Habit form (name should be present and have at least 3 chars)
- Forms should be type safe 

>   - you should not be able to add a form with a name that does not exist in form type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You should not be able to add a form with a name that does not exist in form type
```

>   - handle submit should be type safe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Handle submit should be type safe
```

### 🎓 Learn

- 📗 [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/)
- 📗 [Route params](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/params)
- 📗 [Auth Flow](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/auth-flow)
- 📗 [Typescript](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/typescript)
- 📗 [Testing](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/testing)

### 🎤 Interview
- Get familiar with React Navigation documentation
- Show navigation structure from katas
- Explain auth / role based flow

### 📝 Katas
Use typescript - you should be able to navigate from any screen to any other without any warnings or errors.
- Create Private and Public stacks
  - Public stack
    -  Should contain two screens - Login and Register with simple forms 
    -  Submitting form on login screen should display Private stack screens
    -  Submitting the Register form should move you back to the Login screen
    -  Do not use any backend here, store auth state in context or external state management library
  - Private stack
    - Create tab navigation with three tabs - Habits, Todos, Settings
    - Create screens for adding/editing habits and todos - use react navigation modals

---

## 📦 React Native / State management

> Know how to manage the app state.

Reviewer 2: you can add some information, like https://blog.logrocket.com/comparing-react-native-state-management-libraries/
